Alright, in this video we are going to
take a look displaying a recipe on
the webpage. So we need to set up a few
things there. First off we're going to
need to pass in the ID value that we
want to see. So we're going to use a URL
parameter on that, so we'll take that
right out of URL mapping to get that
ID value then we're going to ask the
database to give us that recipe back and
then we have to configure Thymeleaf, a new Thymeleaf template to display that recipe. So
a lot of content in this. One I'm going
to jump over to IntelliJ and we'll step
through it. We are going to be following
test-driven development so I already got
the test written. I got the HTML written
for the Thymeleaf templates but then
we're going to jump over into Spring,
implement everything. Finally test it and
development. So I'll show you the
tests that are failing and then we'll go
and implement the code and we'll have
running tests and everything be in the
green and we'll jump over to the web
page, bring it up and we will see the
recipes display on the page. Alright in
this video we want to take a look at a
little deeper into Spring MVC. And what
we want to do is set up our recipe
application to view individual recipes. And to do so, what we need to do is add
in a view link and sometimes I do it by
ID but I'm going to add in a link here.
And I've modified the page here. I'm
viewing the page off the disk in the
browser and we just have a slight
modification here to add in a view link.
And I'll show you the modified page. So come
over here to index.html. Now I did clean
this up a little bit. I had some cut and
paste damage in there that I got rid of
and now we've added in this href and
down here on line 53, you can see that
I'm using another Thymeleaf tag there th:href and it's going to replace in that
and what we're going to do is send it to
URL of it's a relative URL of recipe
slash show and pass it in the recipe ID. And then make sure I don't want the text
there let's. Get rid of that. We'll just
have the link say view.
There we go. So also on line 50,
notice I'm showing you a hint there. This
is where Thymeleaf in IntelliJ. So the
recipe is telling IntelliJ the
type of it so it can detect what the
variable type is and do autocomplete or
intellisense for you. So that's going to
be a nice little feature for you guys to
be using. Now let me come in here and go
to Git and we'll compare against it. So
you can see the exact changes here. You
can see on 36 I added in table header
view and I cleaned up. I had these Thymeleaf tags. Those shouldn't have been in
there. That was a cut-and-paste mistake
so go get rid of that cleaned it up and
now you can see that I also added in the
recipe hint for the type and added in
the href of that. Now the next thing I
want to show you guys is I'm adding in a
show.html and it's going to be under
templates, recipe and show and we'll map
it out that way. And this is what I'm
using to display recipe. A lot of
bootstrap CSS formatting in there and
I'll toggle over to Chrome and show you
the preview of that. So here's a sample
recipe again. This is displaying in the
browsers, not going through Thymeleaf
just yet. But we're just taking
advantage of the Thymeleaf
natural templating engine here and so we
got a couple things that we want to be
doing here. We'll have to loop over the
categories display those and then set up
these properties. The
ingredients display those and then our
directions and notes are just simple
text fields I won't need to display. Now
here's the HTML for that show page. See
I'm using the div class panel body,
declare a roll and we're doing columns
3 & 9 for the categories and then
similar format for that and then
ingredients and directions both get
their own panel. So this HTML here
is declaring a HTML panel. So I'm going
to go over the bootstrap stuff a little
quick because this course really isn't
specifically on bootstrap.
But you can see I'm using the classes,
bootstrap CSS classes there to declare
that. Now to get this data,
we're going to set up a couple things. So
following test-driven development,
I've done in and added a test so we're
we're going to modify our recipe service
to return back. We want to get a findBy
Id out of our recipeService which is
going to go to the recipe
Repository and do a findById(). So that
that's going to be provided by Spring
Data but we still need to modify
our recipe service. And long in that
spirits if I run this, this is going to
fail right now because I have not
implemented that. So we can see that I
have a failing test there as well. And
then also in our controller, I'm adding
in a new recipe controller and I've
created a get recipe for that. So what we
want to be able to do is go to an ID
value and we should get back view on
that. So we're going to make sure that that
does return back ok and if I run this
right now, we can see that this is also
going to be failing so I am going to go
back and test or implement these now. So
the scan is following test-driven
development. So if I come into the recipe
service implementation, you can see that
I stubbed that out and what we want to
do, we are going to get an Optional back
from Spring Data. And here,
we're going to add in a little bit of
error check. So we're saying if the recipe
isn't present we're going to throw a new
RuntimeException. So we get an error there
and then we can say down here, this will be optional. So we're just going to return back the
optional. So if we come in there and it's
not present you're going to to fail and
that should satisfy our test. So let's go
take a look at our test now and we'll
rerun the test and you can see that now
I have a passing test. Now I want to jump
over to the controller and we'll
implement him. So I already created the
stub of the controller but right now,
it's a simple class. All it has the
RecipeService and it's not even getting
autowired yet. So I need to make this a
Controller
and maybe we want to turn back a String
and we'll just call it showById. Now
there's a couple things that we want to
do here. One is to do a RequestMapping
and this time we want to do slash
recipe show. Now we we want to pick up
the ID value out of the URL and the way
we do this is do a squiggly line and
give it a variable name and then another
squiggly line. So just like
that. So now we want to get that passed in so
we're going to use annotation PathVariable and we'll take it in as a String
but we'll convert it to Long for our
service call. We also want you to handle
on the Model.
Now you can say model addAttribute. Now the recipeService.
findById and that will go
out and get that. Now we need to return
back the view name and the way the view
name is going to work is going to be
slash recipe slash show. And that's going
to tell the Thymeleaf templating engine
to use our new show HTML template. So
let's go ahead and run this now. Wait a
second, let's run our test first so
as we are doing test-driven development.
So now in theory this should pass and it
did not so recipe show. So I had a
problem in my test. I put in the wrong
URL in the test. So now I have a passing
unit test. Let's double check, make sure
that all our tests are passing. We got
that one integration test that takes a
little bit longer to come up and we can see
that we are green across the board on
our test. So now let's go ahead and run
our application and we'll make sure that
our our template is in fact working
properly because our unit tests only
tested out the Spring MVC mapping. So
come over here to localhost and we can
do a refresh on him. So now we have that.
And we can see that we have a recipe
description which is wrong so let's go
fix that.So right now the only property
I'm setting is the recipe description.
And what I did wrong here is I did not
close those and I spelled description wrong.
Now let's take a look at that. Perfect
Guacamole. So now our template is working.
In the next video we are going to have
assignment to fill out the rest of the
properties here. So right now the only
thing that's coming back from that is
Perfect Guacamole so that's getting
bound from the data model. So just to
recap here what's going on. We will start
at the repository so we will work
backwards. So we have our RecipeRepository, this is
CrudRepository implemented through
Spring Data JPA
which gives us findById method,
which turns back an Optional. So we get
a handle on that, we get that optional
back on line 37 there, we are checking to
make sure that we get a value back. So
we're doing the isPresent test so this
would throw an exception if the recipe
is not found. Then we return back the
recipe from the Optional. That goes to
our RecipeController which is mapped to
the URL slash recipe slash show slash id
and we are getting the ID value as a
path variable. So this little squiggly
line, ID squiggly line, that is a URL
variable and then our path variable
and then we are taking annotation Path
Variable. And it is important to point
out that it's a convention to use in the id
id so that way, Spring will know which you can actually
have multiple tasks variables fully
supported. No problem at all. But by
following that convention, Spring will
know which path variable you're talking
about. And then on line 24, we are adding
in a Model attribute called recipe and
we are asking the RecipeService to get
that by ID.